Business-minded engineering architect and team leader with a specialization in financial
technology. As an architect, I have designed and delivered delivered critical technology for
the payments and markets businesses of my clients. Experienced in developing both junior
devs into senior, and senior into leads. Hands-on experience designing and building
distributed systems, domain driven cloud micro-services, and full-stack applications to
deliver products and while advancing the strategy of the technology organization.
Work History
Associate - Team Lead, Galatea Associates, 6/2022 – Current
 Lead a team of 8 developers and architects in support of new Embedded Finance and
Banking-as-a-Service products at a leading global banking firm. Responsible for delivery
on consulting contract valued at $3.5mm over 18 months.
 Design Authority for Embedded Finance technology stack which allowed marketplace
platforms to enable financial capabilities for their marketplace sellers including FDICinsured accounts, payments, and KYC capabilities via technology integration with a
Global Systemically Important Bank (GSIB).
 Pioneered futuristic client-facing REST API specifications for clients applicable across
several product lines. Defined processes for keeping specifications up to date and in
sync with code. Evangelized adoption of API best practices across product management
and technology to produce a first-class developer experience.
 Collaborated across product and engineering to produce extensible application
architectures that support payments and banking products in production while
implementing the firm’s technology strategy, resulting in significantly improved delivery
timelines for new products and features using our architecture.
 Defined data models and Kafka integrations to enable loosely-coupled, resilient,
distributed architecture. Kept a data catalog of logical data models used to implement
and maintain physical data models in Oracle RDBMS. Provided data to data lake via ETL
and existing Kafka topics to allow data engineering and product to create internal
dashboards and client-facing reporting capabilites.
 Provided technology implementation support for Fortune 100 marketplace clients of
Embedded Finance program by offering technical expertise and architecture direction to
clients and client relationship managers, resulting in the successful delivery of
necessary features and a completed integration driving 5mm+ yearly revenue.
 Mentored senior developers to become sub-team managers while scaling overall team
velocity by increasing individual ownership of sub-projects and ensuring individual
development of each team member.
 Lead development and architecture of cross-functional integration to support pay-byemail functionality for marketplace sellers to pay their suppliers without sharing their
bank information. Formed the groundwork for future integration between internal
applications to offer multi-product capabilities via a single coherent API suite.
 Lead development and architecture of Java distributed reverse proxy supporting clientfacing API workloads by enforcing routing, authentication, and network architecture
segregation across 60+ low-latency APIs.
Associate - Software Architect, Galatea Associates, 10/2020 – 6/2022
 Translated product requirements into system architectures that went on to be
implemented by a cross-organizational team including over 100 developers
implementing bank accounts, payments, account & entity validations, debit cards,
know-your-customer, AML, fraud controls, and more.
 Supported development, architecture, and deployment of React.js Hosted UI for
embedded finance clients to do online KYC, manage their banking details and accounts,
initiate payments, and engage support. Pioneered integration with new internal identity
provider to provide superior security and login experience for clients.
 Lead development of automated onboarding and online know-your-customer (KYC)
service capable of 2-minute STP client due diligence, customer creation, and user
identity setup leveraging Java Spring Boot, REST APIs, Oracle DB, Kafka, and
Contact
Address
St. Petersburg, FL 33713
Phone
727-686-7290
E-mail
powera.dev@outlook.com
LinkedIn
https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexpower-a8963291
Personal Blog
https://www.alexpower.me
Skills
Leadership and Mentorship
People Management
Software Architecture
Cross-team collaboration
Domain Driven Design
Relational Data Modeling
REST API Design and Development
Java, Python, SQL, .Net
OAuth2.0, Open Policy Agent, Rolebased authorization
Kafka, Distributed Parallel
Processing, Protobuf, ETL
Distributed Cloud Microservices
Kubernetes, Linux, DevOps,
Jenkins, CI/CD
Spring Boot, React.js
Webhooks, Event Sourcing
Splunk, ElasticSearch, Dynatrace
Education
Bachelor of Science: Computer
Engineering
University of Central Florida -
Orlando, FL
3.49 Major GPA
Alex Power
Architect and Team Lead
Kubernetes.
 Designed payment rail integration data flows leveraging AMPS, Kafka, protobuf and
specified flows for back-end payment processing for traditional, card, and digital
payments.
Associate - Software Engineer, Galatea Associates, 1/2018 – 10/2020
 Developed and launched suite of 4 Java Spring micro-services which generate and send
a twice-daily investment report detailing financial asset valuations, transactions, and
settlement status for hedge fund clients across thousands of holdings.
 Proposed design and built orchestration process that leveraged multi-threading,
workload sharding across microservices, and orchestration to reduce report generation
process from 1 hour to 10 minutes. Tackled memory issues by replacing inefficient heap
allocated maps with custom built array objects that supported string interning and
ultimately reduced micro-service memory footprint by 80%.
 Managed and maintained Jenkins configuration for continuous integration and
automated deployment of micro-services suite. Implemented logging patterns for log
delivery into ElasticSearch for analysis. Leveraged logs to analyze performance of
aforementioned ETL process.
 Lead development of a cash booking application which records cash flows for Tri-party
OTC and ETD trades for hedge fund clients. 10-month turnaround from requirements to
production with 95%+ test coverage by leveraging test-driven development (TDD).
 Developed a high-volume distributed message processor for calculating valued
holdings for client reporting across 1000s of assets and 100,000+ holdings leveraging
AMPS event bus and protobuf for serialization and de-serialization. Advocated for
system design and data model to including caching layer with Hazelcast entry
processors.
 Implemented new features for client's strategic low-latency inventory reporting RESTful
API utilized by risk and financing desks, leveraging in-memory distributed caching
technology Oracle Coherence.
Programmer Analyst I, FIS Global, 8/2015 – 1/2018
 Resolved over 20 client issues, including 5 critical client care cases in Bankway multifunction banking application.
 Designed and reconstructed 15 widgets to visually depict more than 30 data types.
 Developed an internal dev ops release management tool with C# .NET and Windows
Forms, reducing release time from 4 weeks to 2.
.